Port MASTG-TEST-0079 (iOS Object Persistence) to v2 format with two tests and demos (#3561)
OWASP/mastg: tests-beta/ios/MASVS-CODE/MASTG-TEST-0x01.md

---
title: References to Insecure Object Deserialization
platform: ios
id: MASTG-TEST-0x01
type: [static]
weakness: MASWE-0088
profiles: [L1, L2]
knowledge: [MASTG-KNOW-0075]
best-practices: [MASTG-BEST-0x01]
---

## Overview

iOS apps can reconstruct objects from serialized data received through various channels such as IPC payloads, files, network responses, or `UserDefaults`. The `NSCoding` protocol allows any class to be decoded without type validation, making it possible to inject unexpected object types during deserialization.

The `NSSecureCoding` protocol addresses this by requiring explicit class-type checks during decoding. However, if an app uses `NSCoding` instead of `NSSecureCoding`, or disables secure coding by setting `requiresSecureCoding = false` on `NSKeyedUnarchiver`, the deserialization logic may accept attacker-controlled objects and lead to unintended application behavior or unsafe state changes.

> This test checks whether the app uses insecure object deserialization APIs that do not enforce type safety. For background on iOS serialization mechanisms, see @MASTG-KNOW-0075.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This test checks whether the app uses insecure object deserialization APIs that do not enforce type safety, such as `NSCoding` conformances or `NSKeyedUnarchiver` with `requiresSecureCoding = false`. For background on iOS serialization mechanisms, see @MASTG-KNOW-0075.
```

weakness will be described in MASWE-0088

## Steps

1. Reverse engineer the app (@MASTG-TECH-0058).

> 2. Run static analysis (@MASTG-TECH-0076) to search for references to insecure object deserialization APIs, such as `NSCoding` conformances, `NSKeyedUnarchiver` usage without `requiresSecureCoding`, or calls to `decodeObject(forKey:)` without type restriction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use @MASTG-TECH-0066 to look for uses of references to insecure object deserialization APIs, such as `NSCoding` conformances, `NSKeyedUnarchiver` usage without `requiresSecureCoding`, or calls to `decodeObject(forKey:)` without type restriction.
```
